Feat/hello world update (#631)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: docs/guides/deploy-mn-app.mdx

sidebar_position: 25
sidebar_label: Deploy the hello world contract
tags: [deployment, smart-contract, JavaScript]
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Step, { StepsProvider } from "@site/src/components/Step/Step";

In this tutorial, you'll deploy your compiled hello world contract to Midnight's Preprod network. 
You'll learn how to set up a wallet, manage deployment scripts, and submit your contract to the blockchain. 

By the end of this tutorial, you'll have a live contract that you can interact with through the network.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

- A compiled hello world contract in `contracts/managed/hello-world/`. You'll need to complete the [build your first contract](../getting-started/hello-world) tutorial first.
- Node.js version 20.x or higher installed. Install it using [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).
- Docker installed and running. This is required to run the [proof server](./run-proof-server) and generate Zero Knowledge (ZK) proofs.
- Basic understanding of TypeScript and command-line operations.

> On your project's root directory, initialize an npm project with default settings. This will create a `package.json` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On your project's root directory, initialize an npm project with default settings. This creates a `package.json` file:
```

    "@midnight-ntwrk/wallet-sdk-unshielded-wallet": "1.0.0",
    "ws": "^8.19.0"
  }
}
```

These packages provide essential functionality:

- **Wallet SDK packages**: Create and manage Midnight wallets with support for shielded, unshielded, and DUST operations.
- **Midnight.js packages**: Handle contract deployment, proof generation, and blockchain interactions.
- **Development tools**: TypeScript execution (`tsx`) and type definitions for Node.js.

Install all dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

</Step>
<Step>

## Configure TypeScript

Create a TypeScript configuration file that defines how your deployment scripts will be compiled.

Create `tsconfig.json` in your project root:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2022",
    "module": "NodeNext",
    "moduleResolution": "NodeNext",
    "outDir": "dist",
    "rootDir": "src",
    "strict": false,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "declaration": true,
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "ts-node": {
    "esm": true,
    "experimentalSpecifierResolution": "node"
  }
}
```

This configuration:

> - Targets modern JavaScript (ES2022) for better performance.

Reviewer: Periods aren't needed in this list.

Add the actual deployment code:

```typescript
    // 4. Deploy contract
    console.log('─── Step 4: Deploy Contract ────────────────────────────────────\n');
    console.log('  Setting up providers...');
    const providers = await createProviders(walletCtx);

    console.log('  Deploying contract (this may take 30-60 seconds)...\n');
    const deployed = await deployContract(providers, {
      compiledContract,
      privateStateId: 'helloWorldState',
      initialPrivateState: {},
    });

    const contractAddress = deployed.deployTxData.public.contractAddress;
    console.log('  ✅ Contract deployed successfully!\n');
    console.log(`  Contract Address: ${contractAddress}\n`);

    // 5. Save deployment info
    const deploymentInfo = {
      contractAddress,
      seed,
      network: 'preprod',
      deployedAt: new Date().toISOString(),
    };

    fs.writeFileSync('deployment.json', JSON.stringify(deploymentInfo, null, 2));
    console.log('  Saved to deployment.json\n');

    await walletCtx.wallet.stop();
    console.log('─── Deployment Complete! ───────────────────────────────────────\n');
  } finally {
    rl.close();
  }
}

main().catch(console.error);
```

> This final section:

Reviewer 2: The section doesn't do these things. It explains how to do these things. Also, consider making it and other similar sections active verbs like you did earlier.
